# Assessment: Hello React

For this assessment, extend the basic scaffold generated by
`create-react-app` with a few small features. In doing so, you'll be
demonstrating a basic understanding of the following:

- Kick-starting a React app using `create-react-app`
- Using [props](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html) to pass
  immutable state to a component
- Combining components together to make more complex components

## Acceptance Criteria

### Step 1: Basic React Scaffold

All that is required to get these
points is to initialize a react application in your new repository.

You can initialize a new react application using the commandline tool called `create-react-app`

In your terminal, navigate to your projects folder then run the following command

```
npx create-react-app hello-react
```

The `npx` command is commonly used for commandline packages. It will download the package name, `create-react-app`, from npm and then immediately use that commandline tool. The second argument `hello-react` is the name of the project folder that will be created as part of running the `create-react-app` commandline tool.

It will take awhile for this command to finish because it is creating lots of new files/folders in your project.

Once it is finished, you can `cd hello-react` and then `code .` to open the newly generated project in vscode.

So your newly generated project folder structure should look something like this:

    .
    ├── README.md
    ├── node_modules
    ├── package.json
    ├── package-lock.json
    ├── public
    └── src

### Step 2: Create a `Text` Component

For this step, you will be defining a `Text` component just above the
`App` component in `App.js`. We typically like to define components in separate
files and
[import](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import)
them for use in more complex components. However, doing so would require an
understanding of [ES6
modules](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/08/es6-in-depth-modules/), which is out
of scope for this particular assessment.

This component will have the following props:

- `color`: A string representing the color of text that appears in the
  component. Any valid [css color](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_colors.asp)
  should be accepted as a valid string
- `value`: This is the actual text to display. We'll learn later how to
  use the
  [children](https://reactjs.org/docs/composition-vs-inheritance.html)
  prop to make this component more pleasant to use, but this will do
  for now.

Using the component should look something like this:

```jsx
<h1>
  Hello, <Text color="green" value="Kenzie" />
</h1>
```

And produce a result similar to what you'd get if you used the following HTML:

```html
<h1>Hello, <span style="color: green">Kenzie</span></h1>
```

### Step 3: Use your `Text` Component in the `App` Component

All that remains after having defined your new component is to _use_ it.
`App.js` should end up looking something like this:

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
// ... more imports may be here

const Text = () => {
    return (
        /*... component implementation here */
    )
}

const App = () => {
    return (
        <h1>Hello, {/*... add at least one instance of <Text ... /> here*/} </h1>
    );
}

export default App;
```

Feel free to take liberties with whatever else appears in your application, but
you must use the new `Text` component once and:

- Change the color to _your_ favorite color
- Replace the value with _your_ name

Other than that, go wild!

## Bonus

- Using `value` for the `<Text>` component was
  not idiomatic. See if you can understand the `children` prop and make
  your usage of the `Text` component look like this instead:
  `<Text color="green">Kenzie</Text>`
- See if you can work out how to create a separate
  `Text.js` file and import it for use inside of `App.js` (this will require some understanding of ES6 module import/export syntax)

## Submission

`create-react-app` includes instructions for publishing a React application on
Gitlab/Github Pages. However, for _this_ assessment, it's sufficient to submit the
`git` URL for your repository on Gitlab. Again, we do **not** expect to see a deployed Gitlub/Github Pages
URL for _this_ assessment. In the future, we'll demonstrate how to do so and
update expectations accordingly in later assessments.
